DOCS-849: Add Sensors Service (#1385)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/sensors.md

---
title: "Sensors Service"
linkTitle: "Sensors"
weight: 70
type: "docs"

> description: "The Sensors Service provides a central interface to all of your robot's sensors."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "The Sensors Service provides a central interface for all of your robot's sensors."
```

> description: "The Sensors Service is a builtin service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's sensors."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "The Sensors Service is a built-in service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's sensors."
```

> description: "The Sensors Service is a built-in service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's sensors."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "The Sensors Service provides a central interface to all of your robot's sensors."
```
Maybe not necessary to specify built-in? Or is this in anticipation of the addition of non-built-in services? In either case maybe the description can be more concise this way and the first paragraph can have the full version if you want to leave it in.

Reviewer 2: Also consider changing "to" to "for"?

tags: ["sensor", "services"]
icon: "/services/img/icons/sensor.svg"
images: ["/services/img/icons/sensor.svg"]
# SME: Cheuk
---

> The Sensors Service is a built-in service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's [sensors](/components/sensor), regardless of the sensor model.

Author: ```suggestion
The Sensors Service is a built-in service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's [sensors](/components/sensor/), regardless of the sensor model.
```

> The Sensors Service is a builtin service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's [sensors](/components/sensor), regardless of the sensor model.

Reviewer: this is AFAIK good!

> The Sensors Service is a builtin service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's [sensors](/components/sensor), regardless of the sensor model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sensors Service is a built-in service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's [sensors](/components/sensor), regardless of the sensor model.
```

> The Sensors Service is a built-in service that provides a central interface to all of your robot's [sensors](/components/sensor), regardless of the sensor model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sensors Service provides a central interface to all of your robot's [sensors](/components/sensor), regardless of the sensor model.
```
[opt] see above

Author: Built-in is supposed to mean you don't have to configure it yourself. Though why we do allow that through the UI is a good question...

With it you can obtain readings from multiple sensors on your robot at once.

## API

The Sensors Service supports the following methods:

Method Name | Description
----------- | -----------
[`Sensors`](#sensors) | Returns a list of names of the available sensors.

> [`Readings`](#readings) | Returns a list containing each of the readings from a given list of sensors.

Author: ```suggestion
[`Readings`](#readings) | Returns a list of readings from a given list of sensors.
```

> [`Readings`](#readings) | Returns a list of sensor readings from a given list of sensors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`Readings`](#readings) | Returns a list containing each of the readings from a given list of sensors.
```

> [`Readings`](#readings) | Returns a list containing each of the readings from a given list of sensors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`Readings`](#readings) | Returns a list of all the readings from a given list of sensors.
```
[opt]

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}

> The following code examples assume that you have a robot configured with a gripper, and that you add the required code to connect to your robot and import any required packages at the top of your code file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code examples assume that you have a robot configured with a sensors service, and that you add the required code to connect to your robot and import any required packages at the top of your code file.
```

Reviewer 2: With this suggestion, would "Sensors Service" be capitalized in that context?

> Go to your robot's **Code Sample** tab on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) for boilerplate code to connect to your robot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to your robot's **Code sample** tab on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) for boilerplate code to connect to your robot.
```

{{% /alert %}}

### Sensors

> Returns a list of names of the available sensors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a list containing the `name` of each available sensor.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

> - `extra` (Mapping[str, Any]) (*optional*): A generic struct, containing extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

Author: ```suggestion
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
```

**Returns:**

> - `sensors` ([ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName)): Names of the available sensors of the robot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- (List[[ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName)]): Names of the available sensors of the robot.
```
I think we're eliminating these names since they don't actually exist in RDK.
Make clear that this is a list of them (though not sure if my suggestion renders right without testing).

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/sensors/index.html#viam.services.sensors.SensorsClient.get_sensors).

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
# Access the Sensors Service
sensors_svc = SensorsClient.from_robot(robot=robot, name="builtin")

# Get available sensors

> sensors = sensors_svc.get_sensors()

Author: ```suggestion
sensors = await sensors_svc.get_sensors()
```

```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.

> - `extra` [(map\[string\]interface{})](https://go.dev/blog/maps): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

Author: ```suggestion
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
```

**Returns:**

> - ([][resource.Name](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name)): An array of sensor names.

Author: ```suggestion
- ([[]resource.Name](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name)): An array of sensor names.
```

> - [[resource.Name]](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name): An array of sensor names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ([][resource.Name](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name)): An array of sensor names.
```

- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Service).

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Access the Sensors Service
sensorsService, err := sensors.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}

// Get available sensors
sensor_names, err := sensorsService.Sensors(context.Background(), nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Readings

Returns a list of sensor readings from a given list of sensors.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `sensors` ([ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName)): An array of sensor names for which to return readings.

> - `extra` (Mapping[str, Any]) (*optional*): A generic struct, containing extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

Author: ```suggestion
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
```

> - `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

Author: ```suggestion
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
```

> - `extra` (Mapping[str, Any]) (*optional*): A generic struct, containing extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

Reviewer: I think this needs to be fixed and link put up here?

Author: What needs to be fixed and what link?

**Returns:**

> - [Mapping[[ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName), Mapping[str, Any]]: A list of readings from the requested sensors.

Author: ```suggestion
- ([Mapping[[ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName), Mapping[str, Any]]): A list of readings from the requested sensors.
```

> - ([Mapping[[ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName), Mapping[str, Any]]): A list of readings from the requested sensors.

Author: ```suggestion
- ([Mapping[[ResourceName](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/common/v1/common_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.common.v1.common_pb2.ResourceName), Any]]): A list of readings from the requested sensors.
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/services/sensors/index.html#viam.services.sensors.SensorsClient.get_readings).

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
# Access the Sensors Service
sensors_svc = SensorsClient.from_robot(robot=robot, name="builtin")

# Get available sensors
sensors = sensors_svc.get_sensors()
# Get readings for sensors
readings = sensors_svc.get_readings(sensors)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `ctx` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.

> - `sensorNames` ([][resource.Name](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name)): An array of sensor names for which to return readings.

Author: ```suggestion
- `sensorNames` [([]resource.Name)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name): An array of sensor names for which to return readings.
```

> - [[resource.Name]](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name): An array of sensor names for which to return readings.

Reviewer: think link might be off here, same with a few of the other types around here

> - [[resource.Name]](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name): An array of sensor names for which to return readings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `sensorNames` ([][resource.Name](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/resource#Name)): An array of sensor names for which to return readings.
```

> - `extra` [(map\[string\]interface{})](https://go.dev/blog/maps): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

Author: ```suggestion
- `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
```

> - `extra` [(Optional\[Dict\[str, Any\]\])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

Author: ```suggestion
- `extra` [(map\[string\]interface{})](https://go.dev/blog/maps): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
```

**Returns:**

> - [][Readings](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Readings): A list of readings from the requested sensors.

Author: ```suggestion
- [([]Readings])](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Readings): A list of readings from the requested sensors.
```

> - [[Readings]](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Readings): A list of readings from the requested sensors.

Author: ```suggestion
- [][Readings](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Readings): A list of readings from the requested sensors.
```

> - [([]Readings])](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Readings): A list of readings from the requested sensors.

Author: ```suggestion
- [([]Readings)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Readings): A list of readings from the requested sensors.
```

- [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/services/sensors#Service).

```go {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// Access the Sensors Service
sensorsService, err := sensors.FromRobot(robot, "builtin")
if err != nil {
  logger.Fatal(err)
}

> // Get available sensors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get readings from all available sensors
```
